Blog: Building a Label Scanner with FlowFuse for Product Labels & Serial Numbers (#4052)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2025/11/building-label-scanner-with-flowfuse.md

---
title: "Building a Label Scanner with FlowFuse for Product Labels & Serial Numbers"
subtitle: "A practical guide to automating text recognition in manufacturing workflows"
description: "Step-by-step guide to building an OCR system in FlowFuse for scanning product labels, extracting text, and validating serial numbers using Node-RED flows."
date: 2025-11-11
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
keywords: flowfuse, node-red, ocr, label scanner, serial number recognition, product label automation, text extraction, manufacturing automation, industrial iot, machine vision, flowfuse dashboard, tesseract ocr, image processing, barcode scanning, smart factory, production line automation, quality control, flowfuse tables, database integration, ai in manufacturing, low-code automation
tags:
  - flowfuse
---

> In any production facility, there are labels on everything. Products have serial numbers and lot codes. Packages have batch IDs and dates. All of it needs to be tracked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In production environments, labels are everywhere! Products have Serial Numbers and Lot Codes, Packages have Batch IDs and Dates. These are often critical to the processes for packaging, tracking, logging, inventory and so on. They need to be reliably read...
```

WDYT ^ ?

{% endrenderFlow %}

If you want to fully automate this process, you can set up a fixed camera positioned where products pass through on the production line. This approach eliminates manual scanning, but it will require proper camera mounting, lighting setup, and trigger mechanisms to capture images at the right moment as products move past the camera.

> Furthermore, you can push scanned label data to a database. The easiest way to do this is using [FlowFuse Tables](/blog/2025/08/getting-started-with-flowfuse-tables/), which is a built-in database service managed by FlowFuse. You'll find query node in the palette that automatically connect to the database and include FlowFuse Assistant integration, allowing you to [query the database with natural language](/blog/2025/09/ai-assistant-flowfuse-tables/)—no extra skills required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, you can push scanned label data to a database. The easiest way to do this is using [FlowFuse Tables](/blog/2025/08/getting-started-with-flowfuse-tables/), which is a built-in database service managed by FlowFuse. You'll find the **query** node in the palette that not only simplifies setup by connecting to the FlowFuse Tables database, it also has AI query building via the integrated FlowFuse Assistant, allowing you to [generate queries using natural language](/blog/2025/09/ai-assistant-flowfuse-tables/) — no SQL skills required!
```
